# MMM: The Novel Heterogeneous GRNs Based on Network Matching for AMD Multi-omics Data
 This is the supplementary file containing relevant code and data referenced in this article. Please read the following carefully before running the above code.
## Preparations required before running the code
Open RStudio and run the following command in the console to install renv:

```r
install.packages("renv")
```
Among renv is the officially recommended virtual environment tool by RStudio. 

And you can start with a project with MMM.Rproj and renv.lock, restore the virtual environment as follows:
1. Open the MMM.Rproj project in RStudio (via .Rproj).

2. Run in the console:
```r
renv::restore()
```
This command will automatically install all dependencies and their specific versions as recorded in renv.lock, ensuring your environment matches the original’s.
## What about the supplementary file
### Code 
Including six sections:
1. STEP1_Gene_Data_Preprocessing：Including data preprocessing such as filtering differentially expressed genes using the Limma method.
2. STEP2_ Construct_Muti_omics_GRNs: This section integrates protein data and employs the BLGGM method to preliminarily construct a gene regulatory network for the macular region.
3. STEP3_GRNs_and_Heatmap_Generation：Including gene regulatory network mapping of the macula and gene expression heatmaps of the macula.
4. STEP4_Gene_Enrichment_Analysis: Including gene enrichment qnalysis.
5. STEP5_Network_Propensity_Matching：Including specific steps for propensity matching.
6. STEP6_Construt_Specific_GRNs：This includes constructing corresponding matching networks using the matched cell populations, as well as constructing Specific networks.
7. function_real: Provide computational services for the BLGGM model.
### Data
1. annotations.tsv：Including relevan.t information about sampled cells is a crucial foundation for network propensity matching.
2. counts.mtx：Gene expression levels in different cell types.
3. gene_names: Gene name.
4. protein_matrix：Gene Regulatory Networks in Protein Expression.
### Output
1. Figure: All are presented in PDF format. Including all images generated by the above code.
2. Intermediate Dataset: Intermediate data generated by the previous step and stored to facilitate the smooth operation of the next step.
